So let's take a look at some of the DevOps benefits.
DevOps has benefits in two different areas, technical and cultural.
And the technical benefits because everything is automated, you can deliver your software faster as
well as faster problem remediation, and it is easier to replicate best practices.
What does that mean in real world?
You are not going to have just one environment.
You will have sandbox dev, test, staging and production.
Since you automated and codified everything.
Replicating process is as simple as just copy pasting your pipeline for another environment with the
organization.
Best practices built in the pipeline without any human error.
Because you are saving time on fix and maintenance, creating new environment, you have more time to
innovate and work on business problems.
What are some of the cultural benefits now?
The developer operations and in some cases testers are in the same team.
There is improved communication and collaboration.
And this one is a big one.
Greater professional opportunities.
Developers can learn tools for operations and vice versa, and get better job and pay, which leads
to happier, more productive teams.
So at this point, I would like you to think this couple questions for your organizations or project.
How long would it take your organization to deploy a change that involves a single line of code?
And can you do this on a repeatable, reliable basis?
Without DevOps, the answer will be no, because even to do a single line of code change with traditional
deployment, you still have to go through all those long, tedious and manual processes with DevOps.
Since everything is automated, it can be done in seconds.
Comparing DevOps and non DevOps organizations.
Organizations that implemented DevOps have four times lower change failure rate 24 times faster recovery
times, 200 times more frequent deployments, and 44% more time spent on new features and code.